README.md, before:

# Intelligent-tree-select

React tree select component  based on [react-select](https://github.com/JedWatson/react-select#react-select)
and [react-virtualized-select](https://github.com/bvaughn/react-virtualized-select#react-virtualized-select)

#### Before start

Before you can use this component you will need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) in version 6.5+, but i recommend to use the latest available version.

### Getting started
Easiest way is to install via NPM
```
npm install intelligent-tree-select --save
```

Then import it
```
import { VirtualizedTreeSelect } from 'intelligent-tree-select'
import { IntelligentTreeSelect } from 'intelligent-tree-select'
import "intelligent-tree-select/lib/styles.css"
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
```

example of the usage in the `src/demo.js`

### Virtualized tree select Props

Props types are same as the one introduced by [_react-select@1.x_ ](https://github.com/JedWatson/react-select/tree/v1.x)
The additional parameters introduced by _virtualized-tree-select_ are optional. 
They are:

| Property | Type | Default Value | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| childrenKey | `string` | 'children' | path of the child value in option objects |
| expanded | `bool` | false | whether the options are expanded by default |
| isMenuOpen | `bool` | false | Whether the menu is open. Setting this to true force menu to me always opened |
| maxHeight | `number` | 300 | Maximum height of the dropdown menu |
| minHeight | `number` | 0 | Minimum height of the dropdown menu |
| menuRenderer | `func` | - | overriding built-in drop-down menu render function |
| optionRenderer | `func` | - | overriding built-in option render function. |
| optionHeight | `number` or `func` | 25px | Option height. Dynamic height can be supported via a function with the signature `({ option: Object }): number` |
| optionLeftOffset | `number` | 16px | Option base left offset. Left offset is calculated as `depth level of the option * optionLeftOffset` |
| renderAsTree | `bool` | true | whether options should be rendered as a tree. |

#### Custom Option Renderer

You can override the built-in option renderer by specifying your own `optionRenderer` property. Your renderer should return a React element that represents the specified option. It will be passed the following named parameters:

| Property | Type | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|
| childrenKey | `string` | Attribute of option that contains the children key. |
| focusedOption | `Object` | The option currently-focused in the dropdown. Use this property to determine if your rendered option should be highlighted or styled differently. |
| focusedOptionIndex | `number` | Index of the currently-focused option. |
| focusOption | `Function` | Callback to update the focused option; for example, you may want to call this function on mouse-over. |
| key | `string` | A unique identifier for each element created by the renderer. |
| labelKey | `string` | Attribute of option that contains the display text. |
| getOptionLabel | `Function` | Function to extract label from an option. If specified, overrides `labelKey`. |
| option | `Object` | The option to be rendered. |
| optionIndex | `number` | Index of the option to be rendered. |
| renderAsTree | `bool` | Whether the options should be render as a tree. |
| searchString | `string` | Current content of the search input. |
| selectValue | `Function` | Callback to update the selected values; for example, you may want to call this function on click. |
| optionStyle | `Object` | Styles that must be passed to the rendered option. These styles are specifying the position of each option (required for correct option displaying in the dropdown).
| toggleOption | `Function` | Expand/Collapse option if it has children. |
| valueArray | `Array<Object>` | Array of the currently-selected options. Use this property to determine if your rendered option should be highlighted or styled differently. |
| valueKey | `string` | Attribute of option that contains the value. |

### Intelligent tree select props

| Property | Type | Default Value | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| displayInfoOnHover | `bool` | false | Whether to render option information on hover. By default, this info is extracted by transforming the option to JSON and stringifying it. |
| tooltipKey | `string` | -- | Attribute of option which will be used as content of hover tooltip (instead of stringified option itself). |
| labelKey | `string` | `label` | Attribute of option that contains the display text. |
| getOptionLabel | `Function` | -- | Function to extract label from an option. If specified, overrides `labelKey`. |
| onOptionCreate | `function` | -- | callback when the new option is created. Signature `({ option: Object}): none`|
| optionLifetime | `string` | '5m' | String representing how long the options should be cached. Syntax: `XdXhXmXs` where `X` is some number, `d` stands for days, `h` hours ,`m` minutes, `s` seconds|
| showSettings | `bool` | 'true' | whether the section with settings and button for creating new option should be visible|
| simpleTreeData | `bool` | true | whether the options are in the simple format. (One node == one option) |
| fetchOptions | `func` | -- | Signature: `({searchString, optionID, limit, offset, option}): Promise`. If the `optionID` is not an empty string then the function should return children options of that option (`option` is provided as well should it be needed). If the `searchString` is not an empty string then the function should return all options whose label value match the `searchStromg` + their parent options|
| fetchLimit | `number` | 100 | amount of data to be fetched |
| multi | `bool` | true | whether the select in multi select or not |
| name | `string` | -- | Unique name for the component. Whenever this prop is set then the options will be cached|
| formComponent | `func` | -- | Function returning React element representing form. Syntax `({onOptionCreate, toggleModal, options, labelKey, valueKey, childrenKey}): React.component`|


### IntelligentTreeSelect public API

| Method | Description |
|:---|:---|
| `resetOptions` | Force reloading of options when `fetchOptions` property is used to specify how to load options. If options are specified in props, this reloads them from the current props. |

Commit message:

[Issue #22] Reset options when prevProps.options do not equal current props.options (reference equality).
Note that this may lead to an increased number of options resets and thus it is recommended to memoize the options in the parent component.

README.md, after:

# Intelligent-tree-select

React tree select component  based on [react-select](https://github.com/JedWatson/react-select#react-select)
and [react-virtualized-select](https://github.com/bvaughn/react-virtualized-select#react-virtualized-select)

#### Before start

Before you can use this component you will need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) in version 6.5+, but i recommend to use the latest available version.

### Getting started
Easiest way is to install via NPM
```
npm install intelligent-tree-select --save
```

Then import it
```
import { VirtualizedTreeSelect } from 'intelligent-tree-select'
import { IntelligentTreeSelect } from 'intelligent-tree-select'
import "intelligent-tree-select/lib/styles.css"
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css';
```

example of the usage in the `src/demo.js`

### Virtualized tree select Props

Props types are same as the one introduced by [_react-select@1.x_ ](https://github.com/JedWatson/react-select/tree/v1.x)
The additional parameters introduced by _virtualized-tree-select_ are optional. 
They are:

| Property | Type | Default Value | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| childrenKey | `string` | 'children' | path of the child value in option objects |
| expanded | `bool` | false | whether the options are expanded by default |
| isMenuOpen | `bool` | false | Whether the menu is open. Setting this to true force menu to me always opened |
| maxHeight | `number` | 300 | Maximum height of the dropdown menu |
| minHeight | `number` | 0 | Minimum height of the dropdown menu |
| menuRenderer | `func` | - | overriding built-in drop-down menu render function |
| optionRenderer | `func` | - | overriding built-in option render function. |
| optionHeight | `number` or `func` | 25px | Option height. Dynamic height can be supported via a function with the signature `({ option: Object }): number` |
| optionLeftOffset | `number` | 16px | Option base left offset. Left offset is calculated as `depth level of the option * optionLeftOffset` |
| renderAsTree | `bool` | true | whether options should be rendered as a tree. |

#### Custom Option Renderer

You can override the built-in option renderer by specifying your own `optionRenderer` property. Your renderer should return a React element that represents the specified option. It will be passed the following named parameters:

| Property | Type | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|
| childrenKey | `string` | Attribute of option that contains the children key. |
| focusedOption | `Object` | The option currently-focused in the dropdown. Use this property to determine if your rendered option should be highlighted or styled differently. |
| focusedOptionIndex | `number` | Index of the currently-focused option. |
| focusOption | `Function` | Callback to update the focused option; for example, you may want to call this function on mouse-over. |
| key | `string` | A unique identifier for each element created by the renderer. |
| labelKey | `string` | Attribute of option that contains the display text. |
| getOptionLabel | `Function` | Function to extract label from an option. If specified, overrides `labelKey`. |
| option | `Object` | The option to be rendered. |
| optionIndex | `number` | Index of the option to be rendered. |
| renderAsTree | `bool` | Whether the options should be render as a tree. |
| searchString | `string` | Current content of the search input. |
| selectValue | `Function` | Callback to update the selected values; for example, you may want to call this function on click. |
| optionStyle | `Object` | Styles that must be passed to the rendered option. These styles are specifying the position of each option (required for correct option displaying in the dropdown).
| toggleOption | `Function` | Expand/Collapse option if it has children. |
| valueArray | `Array<Object>` | Array of the currently-selected options. Use this property to determine if your rendered option should be highlighted or styled differently. |
| valueKey | `string` | Attribute of option that contains the value. |

### Intelligent tree select props

| Property | Type | Default Value | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| displayInfoOnHover | `bool` | false | Whether to render option information on hover. By default, this info is extracted by transforming the option to JSON and stringifying it. |
| tooltipKey | `string` | -- | Attribute of option which will be used as content of hover tooltip (instead of stringified option itself). |
| labelKey | `string` | `label` | Attribute of option that contains the display text. |
| getOptionLabel | `Function` | -- | Function to extract label from an option. If specified, overrides `labelKey`. |
| onOptionCreate | `function` | -- | callback when the new option is created. Signature `({ option: Object}): none`|
| optionLifetime | `string` | '5m' | String representing how long the options should be cached. Syntax: `XdXhXmXs` where `X` is some number, `d` stands for days, `h` hours ,`m` minutes, `s` seconds|
| showSettings | `bool` | 'true' | whether the section with settings and button for creating new option should be visible|
| simpleTreeData | `bool` | true | whether the options are in the simple format. (One node == one option) |
| fetchOptions | `func` | -- | Signature: `({searchString, optionID, limit, offset, option}): Promise`. If the `optionID` is not an empty string then the function should return children options of that option (`option` is provided as well should it be needed). If the `searchString` is not an empty string then the function should return all options whose label value match the `searchStromg` + their parent options|
| options      | `Array<Object>` | -- | Options to render in the menu list. If `fetchOptions` is not specified (it takes precedence over this property if specified), this property can be used to provide options to select from. Note that it is recommended to _memoize_ them.
| fetchLimit | `number` | 100 | amount of data to be fetched |
| multi | `bool` | true | whether the select in multi select or not |
| name | `string` | -- | Unique name for the component. Whenever this prop is set then the options will be cached|
| formComponent | `func` | -- | Function returning React element representing form. Syntax `({onOptionCreate, toggleModal, options, labelKey, valueKey, childrenKey}): React.component`|


### IntelligentTreeSelect public API

| Method | Description |
|:---|:---|
| `resetOptions` | Force reloading of options when `fetchOptions` property is used to specify how to load options. If options are specified in props, this reloads them from the current props. |
